SendX REST API has two methods:

* [Identify](#identify_api)
* [Track](#track_api)

## <a name="identify_api"></a> Identify API Method

Identify API Method is used to attach data to a visitor. If a contact is not yet created then we will create the contact. In case contact already exists then we update it.

**Example Request:**

> 
    {
      email: "john.doe@gmail.com",  
      firstName: "John",
      lastName: "Doe",
      birthday: "1989-03-03",
      customFields: { "Designation": "Software Engineer", "Age": "27", "Experience": "5"},  
      tags: ["Developer", "API Team"],  
     }


Note that tags are an array of strings. In case they don't exist previously then API will create them and associate them with the contact.

Similarly if a custom field doesn't exist then it is first created and then associated with the contact along-with the corresponding value. In case custom field exists already then we simply update the value of it for the aforementioned contact.

We don't delete any of the properties based on identify call. What this means is that if for the same contact you did two API calls like:


**API Call A**
 
> 
    {
       email: "john.doe@gmail.com", 
       firstName: "John",
       birthday: "1989-03-03",
       customFields: { "Designation": "Software Engineer"},  
       tags: ["Developer"],  
    }


**API Call B**

> 
    {  
      email: "john.doe@gmail.com",  
      customFields: { "Age": "29"},  
      tags: ["API Team"],  
    }


The the final contact will have firstName as **John**, birthday as **1989-03-03** present. Also both tags **Developer** and **API Team** shall be present alongwith custom fields **Designation** and **Age**.


**Properties:**

* **firstName**: type string
* **lastName**: type string
* **email**: type string  
* **company**: type string  
* **birthday**: type string with format **YYYY-MM-DD** eg: 2016-11-21  
* **customFields**: type map[string]string   
* **tags**: type array of string 


**Response:**

> 
    {
      "status": "200",
      "message": "OK",
      "data": {
        "encryptedTeamId": "CLdh9Ig5GLIN1u8gTRvoja",
        "encryptedId": "c9QF63nrBenCaAXe660byz",
        "tags": [
          "API Team",
          "Tech"
        ],
        "firstName": "John",
        "lastName": "Doe",
        "email": "john.doe@gmail.com",
        "company": "",
        "birthday": "1989-03-03",
        "customFields": {
          "Age": "29",
          "Designation": "Software Engineer"
        }
      }
    }


## <a name="track_api"></a> Track API Method


Track API Method is used to associate **tags** with a contact. You can have automation rules based on tag addition and they will get executed. For eg:

* **On user registration** tag start onboarding drip for him / her.
* **Account Upgrade** tag start add user to paid user list and start account expansion drip. 

**Response:**

>
   {
    "status": "200",
    "message": "OK",
    "data": "success"
   }

## Overview

This SDK is automatically generated by the [Swagger Codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) project:

- API version: v1
- Package version: v1
- Build package: class io.swagger.codegen.languages.JavascriptClientCodegen

## Installation

### For [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

#### npm

To publish the library as a [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/),
please follow the procedure in ["Publishing npm packages"](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/publishing-npm-packages).

Then install it via:

```shell
npm install send_x_rest_api --save
```

#### git
#
If the library is hosted at a git repository, e.g.
https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/send_x_rest_api
then install it via:

```shell
    npm install YOUR_USERNAME/send_x_rest_api --save
```

### For browser

The library also works in the browser environment via npm and [browserify](http://browserify.org/). After following
the above steps with Node.js and installing browserify with `npm install -g browserify`,
perform the following (assuming *main.js* is your entry file):

```shell
browserify main.js > bundle.js
```

Then include *bundle.js* in the HTML pages.

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation](#installation) instruction and execute the following JS code:

```javascript
var SendXRestApi = require('send_x_rest_api');

var api = new SendXRestApi.ContactApi()

var apiKey = "apiKey_example"; // {String} 

var teamId = "teamId_example"; // {String} 

var body = new SendXRestApi.Contact(); // {Contact} Contact details


var callback = function(error, data, response) {
  if (error) {
    console.error(error);
  } else {
    console.log('API called successfully. Returned data: ' + data);
  }
};
api.contactIdentifyPost(apiKey, teamId, body, callback);

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://app.sendx.io/api/v1*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*SendXRestApi.ContactApi* | [**contactIdentifyPost**](docs/ContactApi.md#contactIdentifyPost) | **POST** /contact/identify | Identify a contact as user
*SendXRestApi.ContactApi* | [**contactTrackPost**](docs/ContactApi.md#contactTrackPost) | **POST** /contact/track | Add tracking info using tags to a contact


## Documentation for Models

 - [SendXRestApi.Contact](docs/Contact.md)
 - [SendXRestApi.ContactResponse](docs/ContactResponse.md)
 - [SendXRestApi.TrackResponse](docs/TrackResponse.md)


## Documentation for Authorization

 All endpoints do not require authorization.

